---
title: Improving user experience and Data Science Node (DSN) jobs
date: 2022-12-09
---

We've made multiple changes to the Data Platform aimed at improving user experience. In particular, we've made changes to the homepage layout, adjusted the colour and size of some elements (e.g. services cards, hyperlinks) to make them clearer, and made it possible to link directly to different data higlights and services by clicking on the images associated with them. We'd be interested to hear any [feedback](/contact/) that you might have for further improvements that we should consider.

Today, we are also releasing our largest single update of jobs to date. Many of the jobs in this update are related to the establishment of Data Science Nodes (DSNs) that are being established as part of the [SciLifeLab and Wallenberg National Program for Data-Driven Life Science (DDLS)](https://www.scilifelab.se/data-driven). Our [jobs](/jobs/) page is updated weekly, so we encourage those looking for positions in the area of Data-Driven Life Science to check back regularly! Those advertising a position in this area are invited to inform us of it by filling in the form on our [jobs](/jobs/) page.

We will continue to add new [events](/events/), [data highlights](/highlights/), and [services](/services/) as they become available. Please [get in touch](/contact/) if you're interested in advertising an event on the Data Platform, or if you're interested in having your research become the subject of a data highlight.
