---
title: New data highlight added, and other updates
date: 2022-10-21
thumbnail: "/img/news/diversity_of_life_thumbnail.png"
caption: "Cropped figure 1 from Jamy et al. (2022), Global eukaryotic 18S–28S phylogeny from environmental samples and the distribution of habitats."
show_thumbnail_on_page: True
images: ["/img/news/diversity_of_life_thumbnail.png"]
---

Our latest [data highlight](/highlights/), entitled ['New study shows crossing the salt barrier has shaped the diversity of life'](/highlights/diversity_of_life/) is based on [Jamy *et al.* (2022)](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41559-022-01838-4). The study examines the evolution of habitat preference across eukaryotes. Specifically, they considered transitions across the 'salt-barrier'. Their study showed that such transitions were likely key evolutionary events that were integral to creating the  eukaryotic diversity we see today. This data highlight was a contribution direct from the life science community, and was written by first author Mahwash Jamy. As with all of our data highlights, the resources from the project are shared as openly as possible and are directly linked in the highlight to improve findability.

We have also been making regular updates to our [jobs](/jobs/) and [events](/events/) pages. Please check those out to stay up to date on the latest opportunities relevant to data driven life science.

Do you have some data-driven life science research that you'd like to highlight on the portal? Or perhaps you have events/jobs/projects in your group that you'd like to advertise on the SciLifeLab data platform? If so, please fill out the forms on the appropriate pages (e.g. [in the data highlights section](/highlights/)), or email us at datacentre@scilifelab.se.
