---
title: New highlight details a workflow that could aid in future drug development
date: 2023-12-20
---

Our latest [data highlight](/highlights/), entitled ['research into the immunogenicity of GPCR epitopes to enhance future drug development'](/highlights/gpcr_epitomes_drug_development/), is based on [Dahl _et al._ (2023)](https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/sciadv.adf9297).

Proteins in the GPCR superfamily (heterotrimeric guanine-nucleotide-binding regulatory protein (G protein)–coupled receptors) are important in normal cellular physiology and intercellular communication. GPCRs are linked to multiple diseases and are the targets of many therapeutic drugs. Indeed, recently, biological drugs have been introduced that modulate GPCR function based on the binding of anti-GPCR antibodies. However, challenges remain with developing drugs based on GPCRs; there is high sequence similarity between GCPRs in the same subfamily, and anti-GPCR antibodies are crucial reagents in studies of GPCR biology and pharmacology. Dahl _et al._ (2023) developed a workflow to investigate GPCR immunogenicity. They have openly shared the data generated and created an R Shiny app to enable others to browse their data.

Read more in the Data Highlight: [Research into the immunogenicity of GPCR epitopes to enhance future drug development](/highlights/gpcr_epitomes_drug_development/). You'll also see other highlights on related topics at the bottom of the article.

Do you have some data-driven life science research that you’d like to highlight, or even present as a service, on the SciLifeLab Data Platform? If so, please fill out the forms on the appropriate pages or [get in touch with us](/contact/).
