---
title: New data highlight shows sex determination genes in malarial parasite are essential in disease transmission
date: 2023-02-24
---

We have published a new data highlight, entitled *[Discovery of sex determination genes in a malaria parasite that are essential for mosquito transmission](/highlights/mosquito_transmission/)* which is based on [Russell et al (2023)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chom.2022.12.011)

Malaria diseases is still a major health threat. Therefore the understanding of mosquito transmission is crucial as it can offer new strategies to prevent the spread of disease. In a recent publication in Cell Host and Microbe by researchers from Umeå University [Oliver Billker](https://billkerlab.org/) and [Ellen Bushell labs]( https://www.umu.se/en/research/groups/ellen-bushell-group/), in collaboration with international collaborators from UK, US, and Belgium studied how male and female sex is determined in P. berghei and how this affects transmission of disease. The researchers combined functional screens of barcoded mutants and single cell transcriptomics to revealed the biology of highly divergent and poorly tractable eukaryote with importance for medicine. Raw data, as well as mass spectrometry data and code were shared openly.

Do you have some data-driven life science research that you’d like to highlight on the SciLifeLab Data Platform? Or perhaps you have events or jobs or projects in your group that you’d like to advertise on the SciLifeLab data platform? If so, please fill out the forms on the appropriate pages or [get in touch](/contact/).

In addition, several new jobs opportunities have been posted in the [Jobs](/jobs/) page.
