---
title: New data highlight related to the use of a long-read sequencing method in cancer diagnostics
date: 2023-01-20
---

We have published a new [data highlight](/highlights/), entitled ['Novel long-read sequencing workflow developed for use in routine cancer diagnostics'](/highlights/long_read_seq_workflow/), which is based on [Schaal *et al.* (2022)](https://doi.org/10.1177/11769351221110872).

Some patients develop resitance to drugs used to treat Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML). 
Sanger sequencing is routinely used in clinical settings to identify mutations related to this drug resistance. Sanger sequencing has known limitations, but is used as routine due to difficulties in establishing newer methods in a clinical setting.
[Schaal *et al.* (2022)](https://doi.org/10.1177/11769351221110872) developed a workflow/pipeline that makes use of long-read sequencing, which was recently named [Method of the Year 2022 by Nature Methods](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41592-022-01759-x), to detect and identify mutations related to drug resistance in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) treatment. The showed that this pipeline was both more senstive than Sanger sequencing, and relatively simple to establish in clinical settings.

Do you have some data-driven life science research that you'd like to highlight on the SciLifeLab Data Platform? Or perhaps you have events/jobs/projects in your group that you'd like to advertise on the SciLifeLab data platform? If so, please fill out the forms on the appropriate pages (e.g. [in the data highlights section](/highlights/)), or email us at datacentre@scilifelab.se.
