---
title: Request for descriptions of proposed national data services related to Cell and Molecular Biology
date: 2024-04-22
---

SciLifeLab collaborates with specific partner organisations to organise work related to data services and bioinformatics support as part of the [The SciLifeLab and Wallenberg National Program for Data-Driven Life Science (DDLS)](https://www.scilifelab.se/data-driven/). This work takes place at one of four Data Science Nodes. These four nodes, one for each of the scientific focus areas of the DDLS program, are located across Sweden. They comprise of staff from [SciLifeLab Data Centre](https://www.scilifelab.se/data/) and [NBIS (National Bioinformatics Infrastructure Sweden)](https://nbis.se/). The staff are embedded in relevant environments at the hosting organisations, and are also integrated in the national data platform and bioinformatics support teams, respectively.

The aim of the SciLifeLab Data Platform is to boost the number of services available for data-driven life science research in Sweden. The aim of the SciLifeLab Data Platform is to create an environment in which users can easily locate, access, and use resources (including data, tools, and e-infrastructure) relevant to data-driven life science research. Each of the Data Science Nodes works with the SciLifeLab Data Platform towards this aim.

The Cell and Molecular Biology Node (hosted at Chalmers University of Technology) is reaching out to the data-driven life science community for descriptions of potential national data services in the field of cell and molecular biology. These services will then be assessed for inclusion in the SciLifeLab Data Platform. The services will benefit from, among other things, significantly increased promotion, which could lead to greater opportunities for funding opportunities and collaboration.

To find out more about the application process and requirements, please see the [Cell and Molecular Biology National Data Services request document](/service_requests/DDLS-CMB-request-for-descriptions-of-services-240422.pdf).
