---
title: New data highlight exploring alterations to the serum proteome caused by COVID-19
date: 2024-01-19
---

One of two [data highlights](/highlights/) published today details a meta-analysis of alterations in the soluble blood proteome caused by COVID-19. It is entitled ['CoViMAPP – analysing changes in the soluble blood proteome due to COVID-19'](/highlights/covimapp/). It is based on work recently published in Nature. Please see [Babačić _et al._ (2023)](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-41159-z) for the original open-access article.

Many studies have investigated how compounds in blood serum are affected by COVID-19, though proteins remain the most frequently used in clinical practice. Despite this, only a relatively small portion of the proteome has been explored to date, and coverage is very low. Babačić _et al._ (2023) used multiple methods to expand the coverage of the proteome. Their study comprised of meta-analysis inlcuding both known mass spectrometry datasets and a dataset that they generated during their own investigations. The researchers have placed their findings in an app, named [CoViMAPP](https://covimapp.serve.scilifelab.se), that can be used as a dynamic tool for future meta-analyses.

To read more, check out the data highlight: [CoViMAPP – analysing changes in the soluble blood proteome due to COVID-19](/highlights/covimapp/). Other data highlights on similar topics will also be visible at the bottom of the article.

If you'd like to get your work featured as a data highlight, please [get in touch with us](/contact/) to discuss it.
