---
title: National portal for connecting precision medicine researchers
date: 2025-06-12
thumbnail: "/img/news/precision_med_portal.png"
caption: "Precision Medicine Portal logo"
show_thumbnail_on_page: False
images: ["/img/news/precision_med_portal.png"]
---

We are delighted to present the [Precision Medicine Portal](https://precision-medicine-portal.scilifelab.se/). The Precision Medicine Portal is a national resource developed and maintained by SciLifeLab Data Centre. It is intended to serve as a resource for professionals in the field of precision medicine, and content will be added continuously.

The portal supports researchers in precision medicine by providing information on available datasets, including national quality registries, research cohorts, and other structured data relevant to clinical and translational research.

A key feature of the portal is [KIARVA (Karolinska Institutet Adaptive Immune Receptor Gene Variant Atlas)](https://precision-medicine-portal.scilifelab.se/kiarva), an interactive tool and dashboard based on population-level data on IGH alleles. KIARVA will be fully usable once the underlying results are published. KIARVA is based on research conducted by the [Gunilla Karlsson Hedestam Group](https://ki.se/en/research/research-areas-centres-and-networks/research-groups/genetic-basis-for-b-and-t-cell-recognition-and-function-gunilla-karlsson-hedestam-group#tab-medarbetare-och-kontakt) at Karolinska Institutet. Future updates of KIARVA will include immunoglobulin light chain (kappa and lambda), and TCR (alpha, beta, delta and gamma) variants from the 1KGP sample collection, in addition to constant exon variants from each of the receptor subtypes.

Please feel free to [email](mailto:precisionmedicine@scilifelab.se) the portal team any suggestions for additional content or resources for the Precision Medicine Portal.
